# The Sheep and the Flower

Ctrl-Alt-Test & Razor 1911 present 'The Sheep and the Flower', a demo in 8kB.

The moral of the story is left as an exercise to the viewer.
We're not La Fontaine.

No animals were harmed during the making of this demo.
The sheep is a stunt actor.  Do not try this at home.

Created by:

- Anatole Duprat (Anat)
- Laurent Le Brun (LLB)
- Pierre Martin (Cyborg Jeff)

Special thanks to:

- Steren Giannini & Xavier Dorémus for the inspiration (CAPODA)
- Zavie & rubix
- gopher & xTr1m for the 4klang support

Tools used:

- Leviathan 2.0 <https://github.com/armak/Leviathan-2.0/>
- Crinkler <https://github.com/runestubbe/Crinkler>
- 4klang <https://github.com/hzdgopher/64klang>
- OpenMPT <https://openmpt.org/>
- Shader Minifier <https://github.com/laurentlb/Shader_Minifier>
- KodeLife <https://hexler.net/kodelife>

In tribute to Maf464.

---

## Codebase

The project uses Visual Studio 2022.

### Shaders

All the graphics are generated using shaders. The interesting code is in
`mouton.frag` and `mouton.vert` under `Intro/src/shader`. `fxaa.frag` is used
for anti-aliasing the image.

During the build, the three shaders are minified; the output is `shaders.inl`.
The content of that file is included in the final binary.

### C++

The C++ code under `Intro` is adapted from the Leviathan 2.0 project.
There are multiple configurations:

- `Debug`
- `Release`: used for building the final binary. The compression step takes
  around 4 minutes.
- `Snapshot`: similar to release, except that it uses fast compression.
- `Editor`: enables a player for live coding.

The C++ code actually used in the demo is `main.cc`, minus all the things
disabled by the macros. It doesn't do much: it starts the music in a separate
thread (it calls the function from `4klang.obj`), it compiles the shaders and it
executes the shader on a fullscreen quad. The shaders have one input parameter:
the time in seconds (as a float).

### Editor

To run the editor mode, you first need a wav file of the music (see section
below). Then run the program.

Whenever `mouton.vert` or `mouton.frag` is modified, the shader code is
recompiled and the image will be updated. Use `alt` + arrows for the play /
pause / forward / backward commands.

### `4klang convert`

The directory `4klang convert/WavExport` contains a project that can execute the
music and save it as a wav file. This is needed for running the demo in `Editor`
mode.

The music data is stored in the file `4klang.inc`, which is generated by the
4klang VST plugin.

The script `compile_and_copy.bat` compiles the music and generates the file
`4klang.obj`. It takes as input the music data, as well as the 4klang synth
(`4klang.asm` and `4klang.h`).

### `mouton.klproj`

`mouton.klproj` is a KodeLife project. We used it at some point during the
development, for live coding. As KodeLife doesn't support music, we stopped
using it when the sountrack was ready (in favor of the editor inside the demo).
